## fMRI-Experiment on Morphological Processing

### Task
Participants are presented with letter strings that they have to remember, as a second letter string is shown to them shortly afterward. Their task is to determine whether the two strings are identical or different. To indicate their response, participants can use two buttons (representing the b- and y- keys on the keyboard), with the assignment of 'same' and 'different' to these keys being randomized across participants. 
 
### Experimental Design (English)
To generate morphologically complex pseudowords, we predefined [roots](https://github.com/dbechar/Morphemes-Behavioral-Experiment/blob/main/experimental_design/roots_english.csv) which are well-formed English-sounding phonological strings. For the prefixes and suffixes we limited ourselves to derivational affixes and also predefined combinations that appear frequently in the English language (e.g., full + ness; all combinations can be viewed [here](https://github.com/dbechar/Morphemes-fMRI-Experiment/blob/main/experimental_design/english_pseudo/r.csv)). Based on this root and affix pool we randomly selected monomorphemic words (words that only consisted of a root) and created polymorphemic words that differed in their comprised number of morphemes. For the English pseudo version, words could include between zero and two prefixes and zero and three suffixes. This left us with words that had between one and four morphemes and an overall number of 8 conditions (see [experimental design](https://github.com/dbechar/Morphemes-fMRI-Experiment/blob/main/experimental_design/english_pseudo/design_english_pseudo.csv) for more details). All words were equal or less than 10 letters long.
<br><br>
For the real words, we utilized a set of pre-existing English words with varying levels of morphological complexity. These words were carefully matched with monomorphemic words of equal length, serving as control stimuli. Words here had between zero and two prefixes and suffixes and overall between one and three morphemes. This left us with 5 conditions (see [experimental design](https://github.com/dbechar/Morphemes-fMRI-Experiment/blob/main/experimental_design/english_real/design_english_real.csv) for more details).
<br><br>
To create the error words for all stimuli we opted to change one letter within the word while remaining consistent in the type of letter change: vowels were replaced with vowel, sonorants with sonorants and consonants with consonants. There is equal probability for the error to appear in the prefix, root, or suffix part of the word (i.e., in conditions prs, pprss, etc, the error to occur in any of these three parts of the word was 1/3; in pr, ppr, pppr 1/2 and rs, rss, etc. 1/2). If there are mutliple prefixes in the prefix part of the word, the chance of the error being in one of them is equal across all prefixes (e.g., in the condition ppr the chance of getting an error in any prefix is 0.5 and the chance to get an error in the root is 0.5). This is the same for multiple suffixes in the suffix part of the word.
<br><br>
All final triallist consisted of four blocks with 120 trials each (blocks were presented in an ABAB format, changing between pseudo and real-words block). It was randomized which block participants saw first. In half of the trials the first and second letter string differed from another. Additionally in half we started with the error word. Thus in 25% of trials we presented the word followed by the word again, in 25% we presented first the errorword followed by the errorword, in 25% we presented first the errorword followed by the word, and lastly in 25% we presented the word followed by the errorword. All strings were shown for a fixed duration (see [getParams.m](https://github.com/dbechar/Morphemes-fMRI-Experiment/blob/main/code/getParams.m). 
<br><br>


### Other Languages
We created a similar design in French (see the design for the [pseudo trials](https://github.com/dbechar/Morphemes-fMRI-Experiment/blob/main/experimental_design/french_pseudo/design_french_pseudo.csv) and the [real-word trials](https://github.com/dbechar/Morphemes-fMRI-Experiment/blob/main/experimental_design/french_real/design_french_real.csv)). 

